- Not just about the subdomains but about the entire presence on the Internet.
- Gather information and try to understand the company's functionality and which technologies and structures are necessary for services to be offered successfully and efficiently.
##### Certificate Transparency

- Its's a process that is intended to enable the verification of issued digital certificate for encrypted Internet connections. 
- This is intended to enable the detection of false or maliciously issued certificates for a domain.
###### crt.sh

```shell-session
curl -s https://crt.sh/\?q\=inlanefreight.com\&output\=json | jq .
```

**Filtered by unique subdomains :** 
```shell-session
curl -s https://crt.sh/\?q\=acsiatech.com\&output\=json | jq . | grep name | cut -d":" -f2 | grep -v "CN=" | cut -d'"' -f2 | awk '{gsub(/\\n/,"\n");}1;' | sort -u
```


#### Company Hosted Servers

- Next, we can identify the hosts directly accessible from the Internet and not hosted by third-party providers. This is because we are not allowed to test the hosts without the permission of third-party providers.
```shell-session
for i in $(cat subdomainlist);do host $i | grep "has address" | grep inlanefreight.com | cut -d" " -f1,4;done
```

#### Shodan IP list (Needs Shodan API KEY :) )

```shell-session
HrithikManoj000@htb[/htb]$ for i in $(cat subdomainlist);do host $i | grep "has address" | grep inlanefreight.com | cut -d" " -f4 >> ip-addresses.txt;done
HrithikManoj000@htb[/htb]$ for i in $(cat ip-addresses.txt);do shodan host $i;done
```

#### DNS Records
- Display all the available DNS records where we might find more hosts.
```shell-session
dig any inlanefreight.com
```

- `A` records: We recognise the IP addresses that point to a specific (sub)domain through the A record. Here we only see one that we already know.
    
- `MX` records: The mail server records show us which mail server is responsible for managing the emails for the company. Since this is handled by google in our case, we should note this and skip it for now.
    
- `NS` records: These kinds of records show which name servers are used to resolve the FQDN to IP addresses. Most hosting providers use their own name servers, making it easier to identify the hosting provider.
    
- `TXT` records: this type of record often contains verification keys for different third-party providers and other security aspects of DNS, such as [SPF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7208), [DMARC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7489), and [DKIM](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6376), which are responsible for verifying and confirming the origin of the emails sent. Here we can already see some valuable information if we look closer at the results.