
- A Linux computer connected to Active Directory commonly uses Kerberos as authentication.
- Windows and Linux use the same process to request a Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) and Service Ticket (TGS). However, how they store the ticket information may vary depending on the Linux distribution and implementation.
- In most cases, Linux machines store Kerberos tickets as [ccache files](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/basic/ccache_def.html) in the `/tmp` directory. By default, the location of the Kerberos ticket is stored in the environment variable `KRB5CCNAME`.
- Another everyday use of Kerberos in Linux is with [keytab](https://servicenow.iu.edu/kb?sys_kb_id=2c10b87f476456583d373803846d4345&id=kb_article_view#intro) files. A `keytab` is a file containing pairs of Kerberos principals and encrypted keys (which are derived from the Kerberos password). You can use a keytab file to authenticate to various remote systems using Kerberos without entering a password. However, when you change your password, you must recreate all your keytab files.
> **Note:** Any computer that has a Kerberos client installed can create keytab files. Keytab files can be created on one computer and copied for use on other computers because they are not restricted to the systems on which they were initially created.

## Identifying Linux and Active Directory integration

We can identify if the Linux machine is domain-joined using [realm](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/windows_integration_guide/cmd-realmd), a tool used to manage system enrollment in a domain and set which domain users or groups are allowed to access the local system resources.

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ realm list
```

- In case [realm](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/windows_integration_guide/cmd-realmd) is not available, we can also look for other tools used to integrate Linux with Active Directory such as [sssd](https://sssd.io/) or [winbind](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/winbindd.8.html).

#### PS - Check if Linux machine is domain-joined

```shell-session
ps -ef | grep -i "winbind\|sssd"
```

## Finding Kerberos tickets in Linux

Kerberos tickets can be found in different places depending on the Linux implementation or the administrator changing default settings.

### Finding KeyTab files

```shell-session
find / -name *keytab* -ls 2>/dev/null
```

> **Note:** To use a keytab file, we must have read and write (rw) privileges on the file.

Another way to find `KeyTab` files is in automated scripts configured using a cronjob or any other Linux service. If an administrator needs to run a script to interact with a Windows service that uses Kerberos, and if the keytab file does not have the `.keytab` extension, we may find the appropriate filename within the script. Let's see this example:

#### Identifying KeyTab files in Cronjobs

```shell-session
carlos@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ crontab -l
```

In the above script, we notice the use of [kinit](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/kinit.html), which means that Kerberos is in use. [kinit](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/user/user_commands/kinit.html) allows interaction with Kerberos, and its function is to request the user's TGT and store this ticket in the cache (ccache file). We can use `kinit` to import a `keytab` into our session and act as the user.

> **Note:** As we discussed in the Pass the Ticket from Windows section, a computer account needs a ticket to interact with the Active Directory environment. Similarly, a Linux domain-joined machine needs a ticket. The ticket is represented as a keytab file located by default at `/etc/krb5.keytab` and can only be read by the root user. If we gain access to this ticket, we can impersonate the computer account LINUX01$.INLANEFREIGHT.HTB

## Finding ccache files

- A credential cache or [ccache](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-1.12/doc/basic/ccache_def.html) file holds Kerberos credentials while they remain valid and, generally, while the user's session lasts.
- Once a user authenticates to the domain, a ccache file is created that stores the ticket information.
- The path to this file is placed in the `KRB5CCNAME` environment variable.
- This variable is used by tools that support Kerberos authentication to find the Kerberos data.

#### Reviewing environment variables for ccache files.

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ env | grep -i krb5

KRB5CCNAME=FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_647402606_qd2Pfh
```

`ccache` files are located, by default, at `/tmp`. We can search for users who are logged on to the computer, and if we gain access as root or a privileged user, we would be able to impersonate a user using their `ccache` file while it is still valid.

#### Searching for ccache files in /tmp

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ ls -la /tmp
```

## Abusing KeyTab files

As attackers, we may have several uses for a keytab file. The first thing we can do is impersonate a user using `kinit`. To use a keytab file, we need to know which user it was created for. `klist` is another application used to interact with Kerberos on Linux. This application reads information from a `keytab` file. Let's see that with the following command:

#### Listing KeyTab file information

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ klist -k -t /opt/specialfiles/carlos.keytab 

Keytab name: FILE:/opt/specialfiles/carlos.keytab
KVNO Timestamp           Principal
---- ------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
   1 10/06/2022 17:09:13 carlos@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB
```

The ticket corresponds to the user Carlos. We can now impersonate the user with `kinit`. Let's confirm which ticket we are using with `klist` and then import Carlos's ticket into our session with `kinit`.

> **Note:** **kinit** is case-sensitive, so be sure to use the name of the principal as shown in klist. In this case, the username is lowercase, and the domain name is uppercase.

#### Impersonating a user with a KeyTab

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ klist 

Ticket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_647401107_r5qiuu
Default principal: david@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB

Valid starting     Expires            Service principal
10/06/22 17:02:11  10/07/22 03:02:11  krbtgt/INLANEFREIGHT.HTB@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB
        renew until 10/07/22 17:02:11
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ kinit carlos@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB -k -t /opt/specialfiles/carlos.keytab
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ klist 
Ticket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_647401107_r5qiuu
Default principal: carlos@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB

Valid starting     Expires            Service principal
10/06/22 17:16:11  10/07/22 03:16:11  krbtgt/INLANEFREIGHT.HTB@INLANEFREIGHT.HTB
        renew until 10/07/22 17:16:11
```

- We can attempt to access the shared folder `\\dc01\carlos` to confirm our access.
#### Connecting to SMB Share as Carlos

  Pass the Ticket (PtT) from Linux

```shell-session
david@inlanefreight.htb@linux01:~$ smbclient //dc01/carlos -k -c ls

  .                                   D        0  Thu Oct  6 14:46:26 2022
  ..                                  D        0  Thu Oct  6 14:46:26 2022
  carlos.txt                          A       15  Thu Oct  6 14:46:54 2022

                7706623 blocks of size 4096. 4452852 blocks available
```

> **Note:** To keep the ticket from the current session, before importing the keytab, save a copy of the ccache file present in the environment variable `KRB5CCNAME`.


